  • LINUXFOUNDATION.ORG
  • EVENTS

Home
 
Software Package Data Exchange®


Home » Licenses

Intel Open Source License

Full name

Intel Open Source License

Short identifier

Intel

Other web pages for this license

http://opensource.org/licenses/Intel

Notes

This license has been deprecated. A note at the top of the OSI license page
states, "The Intel Open Source License for CDSA/CSSM Implementation (BSD
License with Export Notice) (Intel has ceased to use or recommend this license)
"

Text

Intel Open Source License


Copyright (c) 1996-2000 Intel Corporation All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:
• Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this
list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
• Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice,
this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation and/
or other materials provided with the distribution.
• Neither the name of the Intel Corporation nor the names of its contributors
may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software without
specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND
ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE INTEL OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES
(INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON
ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE. EXPORT LAWS: THIS
LICENSE ADDS NO RESTRICTIONS TO THE EXPORT LAWS OF YOUR JURISDICTION. It is
licensee&apos;s responsibility to comply with any export regulations applicable
in licensee&apos;s jurisdiction. Under CURRENT (May 2000) U.S. export
regulations this software is eligible for export from the U.S. and can be
downloaded by or otherwise exported or reexported worldwide EXCEPT to U.S.
embargoed destinations which include Cuba, Iraq, Libya, North Korea, Iran,
Syria, Sudan, Afghanistan and any other country to which the U.S. has embargoed
goods and services.

Standard License Header

Who are we?

The Linux Foundation is a non-profit consortium dedicated to fostering the
growth of Linux.

More on the Foundation...

Explore

  • Search or Browse
  • Home / News / Announcements
  • Blogs / Publications
  • Events / Workgroups
  • Membership / Members

Stay Current

  • Linux Foundation Events
  • Linux Foundation Public Calendar
  • Linux Training
  • Linux.com
  • Linux Foundation Monthly Newsletter

About

  • Frequently Asked Questions
  • How do I get Involved?
  • About / Contact Us / Careers
  • Staff / Board Members
  • Privacy Policy / Terms of Use / Trademarks / Workgroups FAQ

Copyright © 2013 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.

Linux Foundation, Linux Standard Base, LSB, LSB Certified, IAccessible2, MeeGo
are registered trademarks of the Linux Foundation.

Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds. Please see our privacy
policy.

