  • LINUXFOUNDATION.ORG
  • EVENTS

Home
 
Software Package Data Exchange®


Home » Licenses

W3C Software Notice and License

Full name

W3C Software Notice and License

Short identifier

W3C

Other web pages for this license

http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2002/copyright-software-20021231.html
http://www.opensource.org/licenses/W3C

Notes

This license was released: 13 December 2002.

Text

W3C SOFTWARE NOTICE AND LICENSE

This work (and included software, documentation such as READMEs, or other
related items) is being provided by the copyright holders under the following
license.

License

By obtaining, using and/or copying this work, you (the licensee) agree that you
have read, understood, and will comply with the following terms and conditions.

Permission to copy, modify, and distribute this software and its documentation,
with or without modification, for any purpose and without fee or royalty is
hereby granted, provided that you include the following on ALL copies of the
software and documentation or portions thereof, including modifications:
The full text of this NOTICE in a location viewable to users of the
redistributed or derivative work.
Any pre-existing intellectual property disclaimers, notices, or terms and
conditions. If none exist, the W3C Software Short Notice should be included
(hypertext is preferred, text is permitted) within the body of any
redistributed or derivative code.
Notice of any changes or modifications to the files, including the date changes
were made. (We recommend you provide URIs to the location from which the code
is derived.)

Disclaimers

THIS SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION IS PROVIDED "AS IS," AND COPYRIGHT HOLDERS MAKE
NO REPRESENTATIONS OR WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED
TO, WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR THAT
THE USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY THIRD PARTY
PATENTS, COPYRIGHTS, TRADEMARKS OR OTHER RIGHTS.

COPYRIGHT HOLDERS WILL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING OUT OF ANY USE OF THE SOFTWARE OR DOCUMENTATION.

The name and trademarks of copyright holders may NOT be used in advertising or
publicity pertaining to the software without specific, written prior
permission. Title to copyright in this software and any associated
documentation will at all times remain with copyright holders.

Notes
This version: http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/2002/
copyright-software-20021231

This formulation of W3C&apos;s notice and license became active on December 31
2002. This version removes the copyright ownership notice such that this
license can be used with materials other than those owned by the W3C, reflects
that ERCIM is now a host of the W3C, includes references to this specific dated
version of the license, and removes the ambiguous grant of "use". Otherwise,
this version is the same as the previous version and is written so as to
preserve the Free Software Foundation&apos;s assessment of GPL compatibility
and OSI&apos;s certification under the Open Source Definition.

Standard License Header

Copyright (C) {{---}} World Wide Web Consortium, (Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, European Research Consortium for Informatics and Mathematics, Keio
University). All Rights Reserved. This work is distributed under the W3C®
Software License in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY;
without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Who are we?

The Linux Foundation is a non-profit consortium dedicated to fostering the
growth of Linux.

More on the Foundation...

Explore

  • Search or Browse
  • Home / News / Announcements
  • Blogs / Publications
  • Events / Workgroups
  • Membership / Members

Stay Current

  • Linux Foundation Events
  • Linux Foundation Public Calendar
  • Linux Training
  • Linux.com
  • Linux Foundation Monthly Newsletter

About

  • Frequently Asked Questions
  • How do I get Involved?
  • About / Contact Us / Careers
  • Staff / Board Members
  • Privacy Policy / Terms of Use / Trademarks / Workgroups FAQ

Copyright © 2013 The Linux Foundation. All rights reserved.

Linux Foundation, Linux Standard Base, LSB, LSB Certified, IAccessible2, MeeGo
are registered trademarks of the Linux Foundation.

Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds. Please see our privacy
policy.

